## Hiperium City Functions.

This project contains source code and supports files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI.
It includes the following files and folders.

- **city-data-function** - Function that retrieves a city by its ID from a DynamoDB table.

The application uses AWS resources like Lambda and DynamoDB.
These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in the parent project.

## Running Integration Tests using Testcontainers.
Tests are defined in the `src/test` directory inside each Lambda function project.

Execute the following command to run the tests from the `project's root` directory:
```bash
mvn test -f functions/city-data-function/pom.xml
```


---
## Deploying Lambda function Locally using IntelliJ.
Start the main class from the IDE to run the Lambda Function.
The project uses the "local" profile as default,
so this profile configures the Docker Compose deployment for the LocalStack environment:

```properties
spring.docker.compose.enabled=true
spring.docker.compose.start.log-level=debug
spring.docker.compose.lifecycle-management=start_and_stop
spring.docker.compose.file=functions/city-data-function/tools/spring/compose.yaml
```

### Invoke Lambda function deployed using IntelliJ.
You can invoke the Lambda Function from the `project's root` directory using CURL:
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" "http://localhost:8080/findByIdFunction" \
  -d @functions/city-data-function/src/test/resources/requests/valid/lambda-valid-id-request.json
```

**NOTE:** This is used only for local development and testing purposes.
The other Spring profiles don't have this feature enabled.


---
## Deploying Lambda function Locally using Docker Compose.
To deploy the Lambda Function and LocalStack containers, use the following command from the `project's root` directory:
```bash
docker compose up --build
```

### Invoke Lambda function deployed in Docker container.
The following command will invoke the Lambda Function using CURL from the `project's root` directory:
```bash
curl -XPOST "http://localhost:9000/2015-03-31/functions/function/invocations" \
  -d @functions/city-data-function/src/test/resources/requests/valid/lambda-valid-id-request.json
```

### Getting records from DynamoDB.
Execute the following command to get the created records in DynamoDB:
```bash
awslocal dynamodb scan --table-name Cities
```


---
## AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM).
AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs.
For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

### Deploying Lambda Function on AWS using SAM CLI.
SAM CLI is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications.
It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches your Lambda infrastructure in AWS.
It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To build the SAM package, you must use the following command from the `functions` directory:
```bash
sam build
```

Then, run the following command to deploy your application to AWS:
```bash
sam deploy                \
  --disable-rollback      \
  --profile "city-dev"
```

The previous command will package and deploy your application to AWS.

### Getting Lambda Logs.
To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`.
This command lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line.
In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.
So, execute the following command from the `functions` directory:

```bash
sam logs --tail                     \
  --stack-name "cities-sam-cli"     \
  --profile "city-dev"
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

### Invoke Lambda function.
To invoke the Lambda Function deployed in AWS, use the following command from the `functions` directory:
```bash
aws lambda invoke                           \
  --function-name "city-data-function"      \
  --payload file://functions/city-data-function/src/test/resources/requests/valid/lambda-valid-id-request.json \
  --cli-binary-format raw-in-base64-out     \
  --profile "city-dev"                      \
  ~/Downloads/response.json
```

You must receive a response from the Lambda Function in the `response.json` file:
```bash
cat ~/Downloads/response.json | jq
```

### Cleanup
To delete the Lambda Function you created, use the AWS CLI. 
You can run the following command from the `functions` directory:
```bash
sam delete                  \
  --no-prompts              \
  --profile "city-dev"
```

---
## Resources
See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready-to-use Apps and learn how authors developed their applications:
[AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/).
